# RetroDECK v0.7.0b - Amazing Aozora

**Release Date: 2023-06-16**

## Read First – Important Changes!

* `PCSX2-SA` latest updates are not compatible with old save states. Please make sure you do an in-game save to your virtual memory card before upgrading.

* The following emulators have changed the defaults and now run the stand-alone version: `Dolphin`, `Citra`, `PPSSPP`. <br>
If you have saves states or just want to go back to the RetroArch version, you can always switch back by pressing: `Other Settings` – `Alternative Emulators` and set them back to the core versions.

* If you decide to install the new `RetroDECK Controller Layout` for the Steam Deck (highly recommended), it will wipe your custom configurations and emulator settings. That’s because all the configs needs to be updated and changed to be compatible. <br>
The choice is yours (you can always install it later via the Configurator if you change your mind).


## New Emulators

- Wii U powered by CEMU

- We had hopes to add MAME standalone as well but we had to push it towards a future update because of various issues. That's why there is a MAME submenu in the new radial menus.



## New General Features

### New - Steam Deck Controller Layout

Please read up on: https://github.com/XargonWan/RetroDECK/wiki/Steam-Deck%3A-Hotkeys-and-controls
- All hotkeys for all emulators have been unified where possible.

This Steam Deck Controller Layout features both

- Radial input menus on the left touchpad.
- Button bound hotkeys you can access by either holding R4 or L4.

**Installation of the layout:**

**From an upgrade:**

A upgrade from a older version to 0.7b you will get a prompt during the upgrade process that asks you if you want to install the layout. If you choose to do this (highly recommended), it will reset your emulators custom configurations if you had them.

**For everyone (upgrade or fresh install):**

After installation need to manually enable the config as under (you also need to do this for a new RetroDECK install): <br>
`Controller Settings` -> `Controller Layouts` -> `Templates` `RetroDECK: Official Layout` with a version number.

**NOTE:**

Not all Emulators has hotkey support; some have partial support, some has none and some has a majority implemented.

**Known issues:**

PPSSPP has an issue with flatpak hotkeys currently on their github so we have mapped ESC `HK + R3` ( press the `Escape` key from the radial menu) to `Open PPSSPP Menu`. In this way you can shutdown, save and access PPSSPP functions from there.
As soon as the issue is solved we will remap everything to the correct hotkeys.

### New -  RetroDECK system folders

Handling modpacks and texture packs has never been easier! You can read more on the wiki!

https://github.com/XargonWan/RetroDECK/wiki

**New folder: Mods**

`retrodeck/mods/` Inside you will find easy to access mod folders for the following systems: Citra ,Dolphin, Primehack, Yuzu


**New folder: Texture Packs**

`retrodeck/texture_packs/` inside you will find easy to access texture pack folders for the following systems: Citra, Dolphin, Duckstation, PCSX2, PPSSPP, Primehack, RetroArch-Mesen, RetroArch-Mupen64Plus


**New folder: Gamelists**

`retrodeck/gamelists` gamelists are now moved into  by default for ease of access and added security.


## New - System features

- The Configurator has a new home inside the ES-DE main menu and thus the tools menu has been removed.
- The Configurator also has a .deskop icon for ease of access for both Steam Deck desktop mode and Linux Desktop users.
- Added RetroDECK auto updates on launch, this can be disabled from the Configurator this works in Game Mode for the Steam Deck.

## New RetroDECK Configurator features:

- The Configurator has a new structure, with more menus and options.
- The compression tool has been updated to allow for even more formats such as .zip in addition to the standard disc-based formats for certain systems.
- The compression tool has been updated to have an even stronger verification before a compression job starts.
- Added a global preset to swap A/B and X/Y in all supported emulators (aka N layout).
- Added a global preset to enable/disable Widescreen in all supported emulators, globally or per core/emulator.
- Added a global preset to enable/disable Ask-to-Exit prompts in all supported emulators.
- Added a preset to enable/disable Pegasus and NyNy77 Borders for RetroArch, globally or per core.
- Added an option to install Venomalia's Universial Dynamic Input Textures for Dolphin https://github.com/Venomalia/UniversalDynamicInput
- Added an RetroDECK: About section
- Added an option to install the RetroDECK Steam Deck controller profile
- Added an “RetroDECK: Auto Updates” function that enables or disables auto updates on RetroDECK launch.
- Added a Semi-automated RPCS3 firmware installer.
- The Move Folder tool has been greatly expanded
  - You can now move the entire folder or different folders as you choose. (WARNING! Please do not try to move the data to more exotic locations).
- The basic BIOS checker has been removed.
- The BIOS checker has been updated to look for over 120+ BIOS.
- RetroAchivements Login: Now logs into all supported emulators/cores at once.
- RetroAchivements Logout: Now logs out of all supported emulators/cores at once.
- Added RetroAchivements: Hardcore Mode, that lets you toggle hardcore mode for supported emulators/cores with a logged in RetroAchivements account.

## Updates

- Updated ES-DE to the latest version.
- Updated RetroArch and the cores to latest versions.
- Updated all standalone emulators and to their latest versions.


## Bugfixes & other changes:

- Dolphin/Primehack Wii Mote controls have been redesigned for the Steam Deck to allow both for touch input or right radial as pointer and `R2` emulates the Wii Remote Shake needed for certain games.
- Updated the RPCS3 to run better and with a better configuration. Read more on the wiki on how to install DLC and patches.
- RPCS3 and Duckstations save files where in the wrong directory. They have been moved to fit the overall inside the RetroDECK Framework. If you have any issues, contact us on discord or add them on github.
- We made a unique PICO-8 wrapper that makes it runs better in a flatpak environment.
- Fixed an avcodec issue that caused some roms for certain emulators to break.
- Changed the ES-DE progress bar color
- Changed how Yuzu builds are handled and should allow for better Yuzu updates.
- Added a low space warning on launch.
- Various backend improvements and fixes.
- Added the foss Capsimg BIOS for the Amiga RetroArch core.
- Implemented ES-DE's experimental theme downloader. For fresh new installs we only now ship one theme: ArtBookNext (as all other themes can be downloaded from the interface).

## Experimental features:
You can enable the RetroDECK: Multi-user system and other things from CLI for testing purposes.
Read more here on how to help us with testing:

https://github.com/XargonWan/RetroDECK/wiki/How-can-I-help-with-testing%3F

There is also a Q&A on the latest blog post:

https://www.reddit.com/r/RetroDeck/comments/13x8dva/retrodeck_status_update_202306/
