# RetroDECK 0.7.1b

**Release Date: 2023-08-22**

## Information:
- Steam Deck users update RetroDECK from `Discover` in Desktop Mode.
- Don't forget to reapply the latest controller layout: Go into the `Templates` tab and reapply the new profile ending with 0.7.1b (there is no need to reinstall the entire layout from the Configurator).


## Bugfixes & other changes:
- Fixed an issue to make sure the RD controller layout file at update with each RD update.
- Fixed an issue with PPSSPP that made `L` and `R` incorrectly bound.
- Fixed an issue in the Configurator that prevented the Yuzu preset for swapping A/B X/Y from working.
- Fixed an notification issues on the latest SteamOS Beta releases.
- Fixed an rsync permissions issue in the RetroDECK Framework.
- Updated Yuzu presets to handle new config syntax in the RetroDECK Framework.
- Changed auto-update to notification only, until permissions error can be worked out.
- Added some new pixelart icons by ItzSelenux (pixelitos-icon-theme)


## Updates
- All Emulators and ES-DE have been updated

## Steam Deck - Global Controller Layout:
We have done some  changes based on community feedback

**Layout Changes:**
- `Select` is now a hotkey trigger while pressing it down, `L4` and `R4` are still triggers as well.
- The RetroArch combo of `Select`  + `Start` = `Quit` now works on many SA-Emulators.
- `Open Menu` is removed from `Select`.
- `R5`  = `A` button (this allows for great Wii controls on the right touchpad and pressing down the R5 for A).
- `L5` = `B` button.

**Global hotkey changes:**
- `Open Menu` is on `Y`.
- `Increase Emulation Speed`  is on `Dpad-UP`.
- `Decrease Emulation Speed` is on `Dpad-Down`.
- `Fullscreen OFF` command is removed (as emulators have migrated to toggle).

## Known issues
- The built in auto-updater is not working (we are working on it). Discover is ok.
- Some emulators don't have hotkey support or have bugs affecting their hotkeys.
